---
layout: post
title: Agent Brain - Reasoning    
lecture: 
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: world model 
team: instructor
tags:
- Reasoning
desc: 2026-S4
term: 2026-seminarRead
categories:
- Reasoning
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 



## More Readings: 

#### Large Language Models for Mathematical Reasoning: Progresses and Challenges
+ Janice Ahn, Rishu Verma, Renze Lou, Di Liu, Rui Zhang, Wenpeng Yin
+ [Submitted on 31 Jan 2024 (v1), last revised 16 Sep 2024 (this version, v4)]
+ Mathematical reasoning serves as a cornerstone for assessing the fundamental cognitive capabilities of human intelligence. In recent times, there has been a notable surge in the development of Large Language Models (LLMs) geared towards the automated resolution of mathematical problems. However, the landscape of mathematical problem types is vast and varied, with LLM-oriented techniques undergoing evaluation across diverse datasets and settings. This diversity makes it challenging to discern the true advancements and obstacles within this burgeoning field. This survey endeavors to address four pivotal dimensions: i) a comprehensive exploration of the various mathematical problems and their corresponding datasets that have been investigated; ii) an examination of the spectrum of LLM-oriented techniques that have been proposed for mathematical problem-solving; iii) an overview of factors and concerns affecting LLMs in solving math; and iv) an elucidation of the persisting challenges within this domain. To the best of our knowledge, this survey stands as one of the first extensive examinations of the landscape of LLMs in the realm of mathematics, providing a holistic perspective on the current state, accomplishments, and future challenges in this rapidly evolving field.

#### A Survey of Deep Learning for Mathematical Reasoning
+ Pan Lu, Liang Qiu, Wenhao Yu, Sean Welleck, Kai-Wei Chang
+ [Submitted on 20 Dec 2022 (v1), last revised 22 Jun 2023 (this version, v2)]
+ Mathematical reasoning is a fundamental aspect of human intelligence and is applicable in various fields, including science, engineering, finance, and everyday life. The development of artificial intelligence (AI) systems capable of solving math problems and proving theorems has garnered significant interest in the fields of machine learning and natural language processing. For example, mathematics serves as a testbed for aspects of reasoning that are challenging for powerful deep learning models, driving new algorithmic and modeling advances. On the other hand, recent advances in large-scale neural language models have opened up new benchmarks and opportunities to use deep learning for mathematical reasoning. In this survey paper, we review the key tasks, datasets, and methods at the intersection of mathematical reasoning and deep learning over the past decade. We also evaluate existing benchmarks and methods, and discuss future research directions in this domain.





<!--excerpt.start-->

