---
layout: post
title: Agent Evaluation 
lecture: 
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: Benchmarks for evaluating LLM agents 
team: 
tags:
- Benchmarks
desc: 2026-S4
term: 2026-seminarRead
categories:
- Evaluation
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 

#### Low-Rank Adaptation for Foundation Models: A Comprehensive Review
+ Menglin Yang, Jialin Chen, Yifei Zhang, Jiahong Liu, Jiasheng Zhang, Qiyao Ma, Harshit Verma, Qianru Zhang, Min Zhou, Irwin King, Rex Ying
+ [Submitted on 31 Dec 2024]
+ The rapid advancement of foundation modelslarge-scale neural networks trained on diverse, extensive datasetshas revolutionized artificial intelligence, enabling unprecedented advancements across domains such as natural language processing, computer vision, and scientific discovery. However, the substantial parameter count of these models, often reaching billions or trillions, poses significant challenges in adapting them to specific downstream tasks. Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) has emerged as a highly promising approach for mitigating these challenges, offering a parameter-efficient mechanism to fine-tune foundation models with minimal computational overhead. This survey provides the first comprehensive review of LoRA techniques beyond large Language Models to general foundation models, including recent techniques foundations, emerging frontiers and applications of low-rank adaptation across multiple domains. Finally, this survey discusses key challenges and future research directions in theoretical understanding, scalability, and robustness. This survey serves as a valuable resource for researchers and practitioners working with efficient foundation model adaptation.
  


#### SFT Memorizes, RL Generalizes: A Comparative Study of Foundation Model Post-training
+ [Submitted on 28 Jan 2025]
+ Tianzhe Chu, Yuexiang Zhai, Jihan Yang, Shengbang Tong, Saining Xie, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc V. Le, Sergey Levine, Yi Ma
+ Supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning (RL) are widely used post-training techniques for foundation models. However, their roles in enhancing model generalization capabilities remain unclear. This paper studies the difference between SFT and RL on generalization and memorization, focusing on text-based rule variants and visual variants. We introduce GeneralPoints, an arithmetic reasoning card game, and adopt V-IRL, a real-world navigation environment, to assess how models trained with SFT and RL generalize to unseen variants in both textual and visual domains. We show that RL, especially when trained with an outcome-based reward, generalizes across both rule-based textual and visual variants. SFT, in contrast, tends to memorize training data and struggles to generalize out-of-distribution scenarios. Further analysis reveals that RL improves the model's underlying visual recognition capabilities, contributing to its enhanced generalization in the visual domain. Despite RL's superior generalization, we show that SFT remains essential for effective RL training; SFT stabilizes the model's output format, enabling subsequent RL to achieve its performance gains. These findings demonstrates the capability of RL for acquiring generalizable knowledge in complex, multi-modal tasks.
Comments:	Website at this https URL


#### DoRA: Weight-Decomposed Low-Rank Adaptation
+ [Submitted on 14 Feb 2024 (v1), last revised 9 Jul 2024 (this version, v6)]
+ Shih-Yang Liu, Chien-Yi Wang, Hongxu Yin, Pavlo Molchanov, Yu-Chiang Frank Wang, Kwang-Ting Cheng, Min-Hung Chen
+ Among the widely used parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods, LoRA and its variants have gained considerable popularity because of avoiding additional inference costs. However, there still often exists an accuracy gap between these methods and full fine-tuning (FT). In this work, we first introduce a novel weight decomposition analysis to investigate the inherent differences between FT and LoRA. Aiming to resemble the learning capacity of FT from the findings, we propose Weight-Decomposed Low-Rank Adaptation (DoRA). DoRA decomposes the pre-trained weight into two components, magnitude and direction, for fine-tuning, specifically employing LoRA for directional updates to efficiently minimize the number of trainable parameters. By employing \ours, we enhance both the learning capacity and training stability of LoRA while avoiding any additional inference overhead. \ours~consistently outperforms LoRA on fine-tuning LLaMA, LLaVA, and VL-BART on various downstream tasks, such as commonsense reasoning, visual instruction tuning, and image/video-text understanding. Code is available at this https URL.

## More Readings: 



#### New GenAI simulation and evaluation tools in Azure AI Studio 
+ https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/aiplatformblog/new-genai-simulation-and-evaluation-tools-in-azure-ai-studio/4253020


#### LLMs-as-Judges: A Comprehensive Survey on LLM-based Evaluation Methods
+ Haitao Li, Qian Dong, Junjie Chen, Huixue Su, Yujia Zhou, Qingyao Ai, Ziyi Ye, Yiqun Liu
+ [Submitted on 7 Dec 2024 (v1), last revised 10 Dec 2024 (this version, v2)]
+ The rapid advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) has driven their expanding application across various fields. One of the most promising applications is their role as evaluators based on natural language responses, referred to as ''LLMs-as-judges''. This framework has attracted growing attention from both academia and industry due to their excellent effectiveness, ability to generalize across tasks, and interpretability in the form of natural language. This paper presents a comprehensive survey of the LLMs-as-judges paradigm from five key perspectives: Functionality, Methodology, Applications, Meta-evaluation, and Limitations. We begin by providing a systematic definition of LLMs-as-Judges and introduce their functionality (Why use LLM judges?). Then we address methodology to construct an evaluation system with LLMs (How to use LLM judges?). Additionally, we investigate the potential domains for their application (Where to use LLM judges?) and discuss methods for evaluating them in various contexts (How to evaluate LLM judges?). Finally, we provide a detailed analysis of the limitations of LLM judges and discuss potential future directions. Through a structured and comprehensive analysis, we aim aims to provide insights on the development and application of LLMs-as-judges in both research and practice. We will continue to maintain the relevant resource list at this https URL.



#### Beyond Benchmarks: On The False Promise of AI Regulation
+ [Submitted on 26 Jan 2025]
Gabriel Stanovsky, Renana Keydar, Gadi Perl, Eliya Habba
The rapid advancement of artificial intelligence (AI) systems in critical domains like healthcare, justice, and social services has sparked numerous regulatory initiatives aimed at ensuring their safe deployment. Current regulatory frameworks, exemplified by recent US and EU efforts, primarily focus on procedural guidelines while presuming that scientific benchmarking can effectively validate AI safety, similar to how crash tests verify vehicle safety or clinical trials validate drug efficacy. However, this approach fundamentally misunderstands the unique technical challenges posed by modern AI systems. Through systematic analysis of successful technology regulation case studies, we demonstrate that effective scientific regulation requires a causal theory linking observable test outcomes to future performance - for instance, how a vehicle's crash resistance at one speed predicts its safety at lower speeds. We show that deep learning models, which learn complex statistical patterns from training data without explicit causal mechanisms, preclude such guarantees. This limitation renders traditional regulatory approaches inadequate for ensuring AI safety. Moving forward, we call for regulators to reckon with this limitation, and propose a preliminary two-tiered regulatory framework that acknowledges these constraints: mandating human oversight for high-risk applications while developing appropriate risk communication strategies for lower-risk uses. Our findings highlight the urgent need to reconsider fundamental assumptions in AI regulation and suggest a concrete path forward for policymakers and researchers.